README.md, before:

# TSorage

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) 
![](https://github.com/cetic/tsorage/workflows/unit-tests/badge.svg)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/tsorage/badge/?version=latest)](https://tsorage.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

A platform for collecting, storing, and processing time series.

This project aims to provide a scalable, performant, generic, and open source plateform for collecting, 
storing, processing, and presenting time series.

A time series is defined as a collection of values, order by a timestamp associated with each value. 
In TSorage, a value could be anything as long as it can be represented as nested attribute-value pairs, i.e. a JSON object.
Its main purpose is to manage (I)IoT streams.

The project is made of different modules:

- Ingestion, for receiving value streams from external agents. HTTP, MQTT, and AMQP gateways are planned.
- Processor, for processing value streams. In particular, configurable rollups (temporal aggregations) are performed 
in order to provide faster responses to data queries. Arbitrary processing also includes 
  - Complex Event Processing, 
  - rule-based processing,
  - alerting,
  - process mining
- Hub, a set of microservices for exploiting the platform.

In this project, we use [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) for deployment. To run TSorage, make sure you have [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/install/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed on your computer. Then, create Docker image of each module as follows:

```bash
sbt hub/docker:publishLocal
sbt ingestion/docker:publishLocal
sbt processor/docker:publishLocal
```

Finally, run TSorage using this command in a terminal:

```bash
docker-compose up
```

Commit message:

Add a data source for demonstration
Add a Datadog service that sends data to ingestion service.

README.md, after:

# TSorage

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) 
![](https://github.com/cetic/tsorage/workflows/unit-tests/badge.svg)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/tsorage/badge/?version=latest)](https://tsorage.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

A platform for collecting, storing, and processing time series.

This project aims to provide a scalable, performant, generic, and open source plateform for collecting, 
storing, processing, and presenting time series.

A time series is defined as a collection of values, order by a timestamp associated with each value. 
In TSorage, a value could be anything as long as it can be represented as nested attribute-value pairs, i.e. a JSON object.
Its main purpose is to manage (I)IoT streams.

The project is made of different modules:

- Ingestion, for receiving value streams from external agents. HTTP, MQTT, and AMQP gateways are planned.
- Processor, for processing value streams. In particular, configurable rollups (temporal aggregations) are performed 
in order to provide faster responses to data queries. Arbitrary processing also includes 
  - Complex Event Processing, 
  - rule-based processing,
  - alerting,
  - process mining
- Hub, a set of microservices for exploiting the platform.

### Deployment

In this project, we use [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) for deployment. To run TSorage, make sure you have [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/install/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed on your computer. Then, create Docker image of each module as follows:

```bash
sbt hub/docker:publishLocal
sbt ingestion/docker:publishLocal
sbt processor/docker:publishLocal
```

Finally, run TSorage using this command in a terminal:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

To stop TSorage, run this command:

```bash
docker-compose down
```

### Demonstration

[Datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com) agent is a service that sends metrics and events from your host to Datadog. In the case of our demonstration, we use [Docker image of the Datadog agent](https://hub.docker.com/r/datadog/agent) and have configured it to send data to the ingestion service.

To run the demonstration, use this command in a terminal:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.demo.yml up -d
```

To stop it, run this command:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.demo.yml down
```
